HAR Files

While doing deliverable 6 I noticed the light bulb that suggested examining HAR files. This immediately sparked my interest as I have been working with .fit files in my job and so I was curious about this type of file.

I learned that a HAR file is JSON formatted and is used for web browser interactions with website. I guess that makes sense as it is short for a HTTP archive file. It contains all the information like requests and responses with status codes, methods like GET and POST, and payloads. It also has Timings for each request, headers and cookies. This was cool to see the things I recognize like headers and cookies, responses and requests because it shows that the things that I have learned in this class and in other classes like 240 and 340 are actually useful and worth knowing. I have had many debugging issues, particularly with headers and authtokens not being sent which knowing about HAR files might have saved me some distress. One of the websites I read from mentioned that it can be particularly useful for debugging which could for sure come in handy as I just mentioned.

A deeper dive. As I searched deeper about the specifics of the HAR files including the contents and format. There is a log object that contains the data as follows: the version of the HAR, the creator which is the browser it came from. An array of pages, each page contains an ID, a start time and title. An array of entries or all the http requests made during the session, which contains: start time, request with the usual data like headers, method, cookies etc. the entries also includes the response data which is similar to the request. Other things included in the entries are cache and server IP address. This was cool to know about the minute details and specifics of a HAR file.

I wanted to know what some practical uses of a HAR file where, here is what I found. Optimizing performance by analyzing the timing object in the HAR file. Debugging with the HAR file. Using them to simulate user sessions. Using tools to help visualize the HAR file.

Learning about HAR files was super cool and I am sure I will come across this sometime in my professional career. I realized that HAR files can contain sensitive information that wouldn’t want to be shared. Overall this was a really good learning experience and I enjoyed learning about something just for fun rather than stressing about some hard assignment.
